In his analysis, Harrison presents various data on postcranial structures in the skeleton of Victoriapithcus samples found on Maboko Island. Harrison points out that the variance of skeletal samples is less than that found in most cercopithecines, and concludes that the samples likely came from only one species of Victoriapithcus, Victoriapithcus macinessi. Harrison then goes on to discuss what these samples suggest about the morphology and locomotion pattern of V. macinessi, concluding that it is phylogenically similar to modern cercopithecines, and was likely adapted to both arboreal and terresrial modes of movement. From this, Harrison attempts to resolve the debate over the locomotive behaviors of early cercopithecines and columbines. Harrison concludes that data on the postcranial morphology of V. macinessi supports the hypothesis that columbines reinvaded arboreal niches shortly after divergence from the cercopithecines, while cercopithecines themselves retained more ancestral behaviors.

Harrison's methods in this study are well-documented and detailed. He makes appropriate disclaimers in his conclusions, such as pointing out the lack of sufficient samples of Victoriapithcus skeletal structures to be absolutely certain that they came from the same species of Victoriapithcus. As such, this article is likely to be relatively free of bias, other than sampling bias due to the limited number of skeletal samples that could be recovered from Maboko.

Harrison's conclusions are particularly illuminating regarding the nature of Victoriapithcus's skeletal structures and their implications in primate evolution within the cercopithecid branch. The fact that Victoriapithcus was likely a quadruped adapted to both terresrial and arboreal environments suggests its phylogenic similarity to the common ancestor of the cercopithecines and the columbines. Furthermore, Harrison's estimates on the morphology of Victoriapithcus help us construct a view of the species and its place in evolutionary history.
