1. Please list the Computer Science-relevant courses that you are taking this semester and intend to take in Spring 2014.

Previous Computer Science Coursework:
-------------------------------------
CS61A: The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs (Python)
CS61B: Data Structures (Java)
CS61C: Machine Structures (C, MIPS)
CS70: Discrete Mathematics
EE20: Signals and Systems (MATLAB)
EE40: Introduction to Microelectronic Circuits
MATH54: Linear Algebra and Differential Equations

Current Computer Science Coursework:
------------------------------------
CS188: Artificial Intelligence (Python)
CS170: Efficient Algorithms
EE120: Advanced Signals and Systems (MATLAB)

Planned Computer Science Coursework for Spring 2014:
----------------------------------------------------
CS189: Machine Learning
CS186: Databases
CS189: Software Engineering (Ruby)


2. Please answer in 200 words or less: What do you like about computer science, and how would you use computer science to help solve a current world issue?

Computer science appeals to me because of its wide reach and high-impact results. As someone who wants to use science and technology to change the world at the same time, I love to code. An aspect of modern society that I, as a computer scientist, hope to change, is the public education system. From an equality and access standpoint, the primary and secondary education scene is in shambles. Underprivileged school districts that lack access to experts and opportunities have soaring dropout rates, while well-funded and high-ranked districts send dozens of well-off students to prestigious universities. I believe that the solution is online education. Online education providers like Kahn Academy or charitable programs like MIT OpenCourseware already provide equitable and quality curricula to students. But the situation still needs to improve. While many universities hold programs by education corporations like CollegeBoard in high esteem, most online courses taken by self-learners are still not taken seriously by the admissions system. As a developer, I hope to contribute to online education platforms and legitimize them in the eyes of both employers and admissions officers. In doing so, I hope that quality education can become more equitable and available to people of all classes.

3. Please answer in 200 words or less: Studies show that there is a decline in younger generations wanting to study computer science. How would you encourage a high school student to study computer science?

The declining number of high school students interested in computer science is not so much an interest problem than an access problem. According to 2011 education statistics, only 10% of American high schools offer Computer Science courses, and that number is in steady decline due to budget cuts and other pressures on the public education system. Considering that many students choose fields like Law, Biology, and Physics due to their early exposure and positive experience in high school, it is no surprise that the unavailability of computer science programs correlates with the shortage of students entering the field. 
As stated in my response to (2), I am a firm believer in online curricula as an equalizer of education programs. I hope to contribute to online computer science learning programs that would bring resources to students who are interested in computers but lack access to official programs. With proper incentives like gamification, scholarships, and coding competitions, these programs can become just as effective and fun as their counterparts in the public education arena.

4. Anything else? (optional)

Check out my projects!
https://github.com/Arctangent1759
