#1#
Fall 2012
CS61A: The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs

Spring 2013
CS61B: Data Structures
CS9F: C++
CS70: Discrete mathematics and probability theory (Waitlisted)

#2#
What do you like about computer science, and how would you use computer science to help solve a current world issue?

	I guess my wild obsession with computers comes from the fact that I've always wanted to be a cyborg. Having never been good at any sports, I have had this dream of augmenting and extending my body and my senses using technology, so naturally, this drew me to computer science, the thought processes and disciplines behind automation, information, and control. And while it is significantly less feasible to develop a low-budget, powered exoskeleton from my garage, the dream of sensory extension still stands; I believe that with upcoming technologies like Google Glass and the Leap Motion sensor, Computer Science will become increasingly integrated into routine activities as these interfaces allow users to better interact with the virtual world. I hope to use my understanding of computer science to integrate human interface technologies and make augmented reality as ubiquitous as the smartphone in the modern lifestyle, to more seamlessly integrate information into everyday life.
	
#3#
Studies show that there is a decline in younger generations wanting to study computer science. How would you encourage a high school student to study computer science? 

	Recent research on child psychology show that my generation, born with technologies like the internet, shows an increased fixation on instant gratification. Mind, this is not a change for the worse, but a paradigm shift. However, the problem with modern computer science education is that it is out of touch with the mannerisms and learning patterns of the internet generation. High School computer science classes focus too much on theory, which, while an important part of the academic diet of future programmers, fails to inspire interest in students who do not yet possess a self-driven, passionate interest for computer science. As a member of the internet generation, I would inspire high school students to study Computer Science by working more closely with their culture, by encouraging collaboration and experimentation. I am very much against the concept of exam-driven science education. Rather, projects, which produce tangible results and satisfy instant-gratification are more likely to inspire a budding programmer.


#4#
Homepage: http://calttc.berkeley.edu/~alchu/
Projects: https://github.com/Arctangent1759?tab=repositories
