Prologue:
A race of advanced humans have created a super-fast virtual reality near the twilight of civilization.
As the heat death of the universe approaches, human civilzation has resorted to digitizing themselves, to extend the remaining hours of energy.
In the simulation, seconds become eons, and humanity marches forward. 
To allow future generations to possily change the inevitable fate of the universe, the forerunners have left a measure of time on the simulation, a clock, ticking down the seconds to oblivion, and a portal back to reality.
Ages into the late future, factions have developed in the formerly peaceful digital reality.
The controlling faction control the information held by the clock, the amount of time left for civilization.
In order to keep control over the people, the master faction has locked away the very clock that ticks away remaining lifespan of civilization.
They would rather keep the world in ignorant bliss, than to let them subvert the mechanism of their own mortality.

Your are the illigitimate child of a member of an underground research group that has found a way to create energy, sparing the universe from heat death.
Unfortunately, the controlling faction has discovered and dispached the members of the group, and you are the sole bearer of the information required to save civilization and shut down the powerful and decadent faction governing society.

<Cue Game Title>

Ending:
You escape the virtual reality, but the mechanism fails. With only twenty minutes (about a year) on the clock before the machine ceases to have energy to survive, you are offered a choice:
  1) (Alignment Evil) Hack the system. Close a few random accounts, killing off a few people to give the machine enough power make you effectively immortal.
  2) (Alignment Good) Upgrade the system. Keep the system running for an additional 2 hours (4,000 years), 
  2) (Aligntment Chaotic) Do nothing. Humanity perishes.

Themes--
Allegory of the afterlife, the influence of the inevitability of death on personal achievement.
